## Introduction

TODO: this section is an automatically generated transcript from the video guide that I'm currently revising and integrating with the rest

UB Tempo is really strong.
It's fun and you can learn a lot with it.
You have lots of decisions but you may ask well how do you build it?

### Deck Construction

Of course you can just take the example decklist above that I can recommend.
Maybe you're playing more casually in a league or in a FNM or in a challenge and I will explain you the basic building blocks of this deck.

#### Manabase

You don't really have to think about tuning mana base because it's always the same 19.
You have four Underground Sea, four Polluted Delta, basic Island, basic Swamp, Undercity Sewers.
Then you usually include two blue fetches and two black fetches so you have equal opportunities to fetch both basics.
This is especially important against 8 Moon, also known as Dragon Stompy.
I personally value style and like old border so I play two Flooded Strand and two Bloodstained Mire but there may be some really fringe benefits of splitting them up against Pithing Needle or representing another deck.
And of course you play four Wastelands, especially now that Harbingers don't kill Sagas anymore.
The only possible adaptation is if you have a bigger build, for example with Dauthi Voidwalkers instead of Nethergoyfs, you can add a second Undercity Sewers as a 20th land and go down to two Daze.

####  Creatures

Then there's the basic core of Nethergoyfs and Tamyos and Orcish Bowmasters.
You play at least three of each but I always play 4 Nethergoyf and 4 Orcish Bowmasters.
Some people play less Nethergoyfs and play more Baleful Strix but again this is the variant that I want to talk about here with at least three Nethergoyfs.
You almost always play one or two Brazen Borrower just as a catch-all answer to stuff like Ensnaring Bridge or Chalice of the Void.
And the name of the game of this deck is consistency so this fits really well, as you want to have an out to a lot of things.

Then you have the basic cantrips, Ponder Brainstorm and the Force and Days.
Because you play 19 Lands compared to Delver that often plays 18, you can go down to three Daze.

Then we have the four Fatal Pushes as the best removal for most things and then we have at least two Thoughtseize.
So you have not that much brain power you need to invest for the core.
This is like 50-51 cards.

And then you can fill it up like how you want if it's a fun event.

Like maybe you really love Hymn to Turak so why not play this.
You can also play Delver of Secrets instead of the Tamiyo but again then it's a different style of deck and then you maybe want to play Mishra's Bauble instead.
So there are many many options.

You can go up to four Tamiyo which I don't usually do because they're not that great in multiples.
I mean you can have one flipped Tamiyo and one unflipped Tamiyo but then you cannot play Brainstorm without losing one and so on.
So I normally always keep at three Tamiyo.
I almost always go up to four Orcish Bowmasters because it's just so good against all the blue Brainstorm decks and also has applications against many others.
But in paper I just own three so this is okay too.
If you only have three you can play with that.


Then some people play the second Brazen Borrower.
I rather have removal there.
Something like a hard removal.
But if you expect lots of combo then maybe the Brazen Borrower is better because then you have it as a blue pitch card.
Then you have some fatties like Myrktite or Barrowgoyf.

You can play Strix.
Normally the nethergoyf Strix is like the same slot where you have four or five normally four nethergoyf plus Balfour Strix but I go more into detail about this later.

You can play Dauthi Voidwalker.
If you're less worried about tempo decks and more about like combo then they usually don't have removal for it and then it's really strong.

Then you can go up to four Thoughtseize also.
I normally play three because the life loss matters against aggressive decks and there are some spots where you are top decking.
Again, Hymn to Tourach is like a fun card or it could also be really strong but also has some downsides.
For example, if you discard a fatty and they remain reanimated or discard an Echo of Eon.
But I really like the card.
Maybe in an FNM I will play this.

Force of Negation.
If there's lots of combo around then usually you want to have some hard removal because the Fatal Push doesn't cover everything and they all have different upsides and downsides.

Then I really like playing with Kaito.
I always play two Kaito unless you are in a really combo heavy local meta.

You can play Nihil Spellbombs, Mishra's Baubles and some people also experiment with Stockup but I didn't do it.
So my personal additional core which I almost always play except when I play like at a local event with three other people and I know exactly what they're playing.
But other than that I always start with four Bowmasters, three Swordsies, one Kaito and one Nihil Spellbomb.
The Spellbomb is really nice because it's card advantage neutral if you have enough time and it's really good at preventing Murktide regions and especially game one against graveyard decks.

So either I play four Nethergoyf or three Nethergoyf and one Baleful Strix but I prefer four Nethergoyf because Baleful Strix is really only good in a few matchups while Nethergoyf is really strong in a lot of them.
So Baleful Strix is good against Control or against like Rugdelver but you're already good against Rugdelver and Rugdelver also has Pyroblast afterboard but I think game one against Rugdelver it's really strong.
But yeah I think Nethergoyf is just more flexible but if you like Baleful Strix you can play one instead.
Then for the removal again I like having having one hard removal is against stuff like Baleful Strix and also there are situations where it's hard to get the revolt for for getting the fatal push to kill three and four mana creatures.

So go for the throat is bad against Painter because they have Constructs and Painter Servant as artifact creatures.
So if you expect Painter I wouldn't play it but online like right now in Leaks I think it's a good card because people play the Dragonstompy much more than Painter.
So Shoot the Sheriff would be good against Painter but bad against Dragonstompy because of the broadside bombardier.

Then there's Shieldred's Edict.
I like it more against as a sideboard card because you can kill Planeswalkers with it or like stuff like the Marit Lage token but more about this later.
And then there's also the Brazen Borrow.
I don't like it but if you don't expect many large creatures or just a really small amount of them then Brazen Borrow is good because it can also bounce other stuff like Ensnaring Bridge or something.

Okay then I like to either get up to the second Nihil Spellbomb if I expect lots of Reanimator.
So for example right now online in a challenge I would expect many people like 30% or so 20% playing UB Reanimator and then the Nihil Spellbomb the second is really good.
I think it's also good against the Delver decks because you can prevent Murktide from happening and also you can shrink Dragon's Rage Channeler.

Force of Negation if you expect combo or Dauthi Voidwalker if you expect a very low amount of creature removal then this can be really useful.

Then I like to play around I think like three or four fatties so these are either Murktide Regents, Barrowgoyfs or Kaitos.

So my personal like base point is one Kaito and then I really like playing two but if it's because it's really strong in the fair blue matchups while Murktide is best against combo and Barrowgoyf is great against aggressive decks and tempo decks.
So Murktide has the weakness of dying to Pyroblast.
Barrowgoyf can get dazed easier and Kaito is just so strong against most of the slower blue decks.
So yeah you have need to have some combinations or you don't need I mean in theory could play without all of them but in that case the meta is so strange maybe so combo heavy that you should maybe play Delver of Secrets in the first place.
However you don't want to have too many Murktides and Barrowgoyfs together because they compete for the graveyard so that's also nice of Kaito that doesn't care about the graveyard.
So even in the very unlikely event that for example your opponent plays a Rest in Peace and the Barrowgoyf is a 0-1 or your Nethergoyf I mean you can still use it for the Ninjutsu ability and yeah Kaito is really strong because it also cannot get countered by normal counter spells except Stifle if you bring it in using the Ninjutsu ability.

### CC 1 List 

So here's an example finalist of a recent local event where I was expecting Storm, Painter, Delver and maybe Sneak and Show.
And here I actually play the Dauthi Voidwalker and there's also one Neheal Spellbomb that didn't fit on the screen and the reason for the Voidwalker here is that most of the decks don't play much removal so the Dauthi has a good chance of sticking and for example the Storm decks they often play Echo of Eons which they discard with Lion's Eye Diamond and then you don't get priority to use the Neheal Spellbomb.
And so I thought the Dauthi Voidwalker would be really useful in this case and also not bad against like this if someone comes up with Sneak and Show or something and it's black so it's not that easy to remove for Painter with the they cannot kill it with Pyroblast and yeah black threads are important there for Orcish Bowmasters are good against all the decks.

Four Nethergoyfs are also great against all the decks I mean against Rugdelver I could also have played the Baleful Strix but against the others I think the goyf is better.
Standard three Tamios one Barrowgoyf I think it's not bad against Storm like Black Saga Storm I was expecting specifically and then the life points actually matter.
sometimes also great against Painter so Merc Tide they can often handle with the Pyroblasts and yeah against the Storm sometimes the Black Saga Storm decks maybe they can only achieve the Tendrils for like around 20 and you can get out of range or they use their Plan B and try to kill you with Construct tokens and also against Delver, Rugdelver.

I think it's also better so I played one Barrowgoyf and one Kaito here which is a bit on the low side so normally I play like three Fetties main board but yeah because I was expecting mostly combo I was here on the lower end of that and playing the Dauthi Voidwalker.

Then the default cards Brazen Borer, Cantrips, Four Stays, Fatal Push, my usual three Thorsies and Shoot Sheriff because I was expecting Painter and so they I want to kill specifically artifact creatures so Shoot the Sheriff it's serviceable against both Painter and Delver.
Even if it's not that useful against combo.

OK let's now come to the sideboard so it starts really easy I just always put two Harbinger of the Seas in my sideboard and maybe if you have a local event with a small number of players and you know you don't really need it then you can exclude it but I always since this card was printed I just slotted it into the deck and this is also I think one of the big advantages of UB Tempo over something like Grixis Delver or something that you can put in the Harbingers and play most of your cards with just no I think you can even play out all of your cards if you have Basic Swamp and Basic Island I mean except if you play him to Taurash or the Dauthi Voidwalker but everything also can play so of course this is great against Eldrazi and Eldrazi is really good against Delver so this makes sense that you have something to improve the matchup however I found that often it's not enough because sometimes they are quicker but still it improves the matchup a lot if you can survive until that point so especially if you're on the draw they may have the micro spawn what what's it called the this micro spawn card that kills your lands then may not be enough but together with Consigned to Memory hopefully it can win and if you get it down it can often solo the game and unless it gets killed by gets killed by this member.

But what I also found out what that it's really strong against Urza Saga because this deck it doesn't have Delver it doesn't have Dragon's Wage Channeler so this is a problem in racing ancient tomb decks that you often are not fast enough to kill them and they can often race you if they have enough artifacts with their Construct tokens so Urza Saga is a big weakness of this deck I mean you have four Wastelands but you don't always have it and yeah to further improve those matchups I found that they're always bought in harbingers if I expect Urza Saga then of course it's great against like lands decks and so on cloud post and so on but yeah lands is not played right now maybe you could even go up to three harbingers if you expect lots of those decks but yeah right now I think two is a good amount um oh and I don't board it in against aggressive decks like Delver decks even if it's something like Grixis Delver where they have a very unstable mana base I think here I see some people do this but I think it's not right so I boarded in against decks with four colors in every case something like Beanstalk but then you really have to force the carpet of flowers and also against three color decks if they don't have many basics so something like Esper Control with a lot of basics maybe it's not worth it and yeah against aggressive three color decks I think it's also not worth it because you are on the defending side and they are a bit down and remember to fetch your basic swamp early enough so that you still have black mana as otherwise like you cannot play out your black cards.

And then there's consigned to memory many people play three or four but I don't only don't only sorry I only own two of them online and I also don't really get the hype so I just play two but maybe you can explain to me why it's necessary maybe against Eldrazi but I find that I often lose against Eldrazi anyways and I need other slots but yeah it's of course really really good against Eldrazi decks because you can counter the Eldrazi if they don't have cavern and especially the triggers you can counter artifacts or in general it says counter colorless spells so if there is no painter in play you can counter most artifacts like chalice trinisphere the one ring and snaring bridge all cards that are otherwise really dangerous against your deck and difficult to handle because it's hard to destroy artifacts in blue black some artifacts you cannot counter because they are colored like baleful streaks for example you can also counter lots of triggers like I often counter what the saga triggers especially the second and the third one and using the replicate you can even counter both if the enemy has two other sagas on the field at the same time using replicate you can also go around chalice of the void it's really good against doomsday because of tasa's oracle and this is also the reason why they often play jay's wielder of mysteries right now but then they run into your day's wasteland plan um so that's why i'm not always putting in the consign to memory against doomsday depending on their list right you can often look them up online and if they have a lot of Barrowgoyfs and murktites in the sideboard and a jays then maybe it's not that great but normally it's really really strong against doomsday because it gets around whale of summer and they can only take it with this card and yeah it's also hard for them to force if you replicate it then there are lots of comes into play triggers on other relevant cards in the meta like animate dead but then against blue black reanimator i don't board it in because they often board out the animate dead but if it's some turbo reanimator blue no black red deck then it may be worth it to board it in that's also ley line binding then there are storm triggers cascade triggers the suspend triggers from for example crashing footfalls or this mississippi river deck and again suspend you can uh stifle or like consign this trigger which removes the time counter but normally you want to use it against the final one when they could cast it and then you can use it to counter this trigger and then it stays in exile forever then i always play two Barrowgoyf in a sideboard because it's so extremely strong against all the aggressive decks like delver decks it also does not die to pyroblast i mean it's still okay against control decks like up the beanstalk control they can remove it quite easily with swords to plowshares but if it sticks it gives you card advantage advantage so while murktite kills them quickly they can often take one hit and then remove it and be fine but one hit from a Barrowgoyf often gives you another threat and then you can just get a lot of card advantage it's also really good against ursa's saga construct tokens so a problem i often have with murktite regent is that i'm already too much behind because this deck is not that quick in comparison to many aggressive decks again so this is a very often occurring situation that i have a murktite region if i play with it and i cannot attack because i'm at a low life total and even though i have like eight eight or sometimes even eleven eleven murktite region because there was some graveyard exciting going on and they just have a delver but i cannot attack because i'm at three life and then at some point i find a pyroblast and kill the murktite and yeah Barrowgoyf can just always attack and swing almost every race it has death touch it's just amazing card maybe i need to go up to four Barrowgoyfs or like put dark ritual in my deck i don't know i just think Barrowgoyf is a bit underplayed it's really really strong can raise cards like troll of casa doom because like you have double the power in as a life swing so let's say it's four five or often it's a five six because counts the opponents grapher then it's a six ten point life swing and troll is just a six point life swing and you can also use brainstorm to set it up so use brainstorm to put cards you don't want on the top of the library and also a creature and then you can mill the cards you don't want away and get creature in your hand only thing you have to be careful is against reanimator decks they can discard or kill your Barrowgoyf and then reanimated and this is really dangerous because Barrowgoyf is not only strong in your deck it's also extremely strong against your deck i mean you have fatal push but sometimes you cannot turn on revolt maybe you don't have fetch land or you have i don't know the harbinger in play and cannot fetch or you have a null rod it cannot crack clues or something so there are some situations where reanimating Barrowgoyfs and uses using it against you is difficult is hard and you also have to be careful because Barrowgoyf just is card advantage against you and so it's also a high priority if the opponent has one to kill it then i always always play at least one gravedigger's cage maybe two of course it's good against reanimator decks and also against oops it's really really strong because they can go around many of the other graveyard hate spells let's say you have a surgical against oops or spells they can still flash back memories journey um also echo of eons there's always a problem with priority so if they discard echo of eons in a storm deck for example with lion's eye diamond then you cannot use surgical in between so gravedigger's cage stops all the reanimation shenanigans and the flashback stuff and it's also good against other decks that you normally have trouble against like decks with greens and zenith a natural order right now it's not played that much so maybe sometimes i go down to one gravedigger's cage but if like (.) the the nadu decks come back or like uh cradle control then i think you should play two gravedigger's cage because all of the nadu decks they they are impacted by gravedigger's cage that like three main variants there's the the cephalid breakfast version where you stop the i mean they don't have greens and zenith but you stop the dread return from the from the normal combo from the cephalid breakfast combo then there is the elves version where you stop greens and zenith and i think they also have natural order and the control version it i mean i call it control band nadu they also play greens and zenith and in this case the greens and zenith is more of um like overloading your removal piece so they play all the creatures you have to kill them and then you don't have enough removal to kill them all because then they play the zenith to play more creatures and then the gravedigger's cage is good against that it also stops mystic forge i mean the mystic forge deck isn't played that much right now but also if that comes back could be relevant gear's will from storm but not besiege the mirror because besiege the mirror exiles and also ghost vacuum the final ability like the six mana one also exiles so there are some things um that kind of look like they're using the library or the graveyard that gravedigger's cage doesn't stop because then there's an exile part in between so another card that you can play is ghost vacuum so for example um cutter slate 83 here was playing to nihil spellbomb in the main and one gravedigger's cage one ghost vacuum in the sideboard and the advantage of that is that sometimes you have too many graveyard hate cards in play and then um maybe they can i don't know play their creature plan and ghost vacuum you still have the option to use the six mana ability even if it's not that often that you have so much mana but it's also good against delver because then you can just permanently try to get them off delirium for dragon switch channel and also try to permanently prevent them from playing a strong or a large murktite regent and this is especially useful if you somehow need one more card to bring in so against delver decks often try to have a perfect mapping where the amount of thoughts and force of will you bring out should be matched by the amount of cards you bring in and if you are lacking one card then ghost vacuum would be a nice way to achieve a perfect mapping here you could also play one of your nihil spellbombs in the sideboard but i play often against storm where again echo is a problem so i don't do that you could theoretically play surgical extraction but i think it's not that good right now because it is often not enough against oops all spells and also um also i just think it works better in general with a delver deck because then you have a higher chance of flipping your delver and then there's unlicensed thirst which is better at preventing the murktites and delirium against delver so with ghost vacuum sometimes they can outpace it by putting too many cards at once into the into the graveyard but still i think two mana is too much so i like ghost vacuum better in the slot even though it's also nice that you can sometimes screw it so if you are low on threats and too much up on graveyard hate cards it's also a nice card but i think it's better for ancient tomb decks in general then i like to play two to four hydro blasts or if i play four then often i do a three two one split with blue elemental blasts but it's not that important but it counters counters a lot of cards that you have otherwise problems with like blood moon if you have basic island or maybe you can play it in response i mean you can if they play blood moon and you have Underground Sea you can make blue mana with your land then let the blood moon resolve and then hydro blast it of course counters hydro blast a pyro blast and red elemental blast and a lot of annoying cards like fable of the mirror breaker broadside bombardier some combo cards like sneak attack or burning wish fury and it's also really nice against the red base delver variants which are most of them with dragon switch channel and lightning bolt because again it's really good mapping switch let's say you have three hydro blasts in your board and three sword scissors in the main then you just switch them out because your life total is under threat so you just take out three sword scissors and put in three hydro blasts and if you play against an aggressive deck or a tempo deck that does not have red in it like the ubi tempo mirror then you can keep in the sword scissors and the hydro blasts don't make sense so the mapping stays perfect so yeah that's a good reason i think or one of the nice things of having the same amount of sword scissors in the main as you have hydro blasts in the side but it's not always necessary you can also if you expect no blue black tempo decks but there you could also say okay i have three swords in the main and there's a lot of red in my local meta i have four hydro blasts and then i can bought out the fourth force of will because i don't have enough other stuff to bring in then most of the time i play at least one force of negation sometimes two it's great against combo decks like doomsday show and tell i mean sneak and show or omni show and against storm also or like something like necro dominance and you just have to pay attention if you play against the oops or spell stack that you force one of the rituals or the other mana sources which you can force because you cannot force the creatures and then also i often bought it in against the beanstalk control decks especially on the draw because i want to prevent carpet of flowers and up the beanstalks and then in those cases are often bought down on days especially on the draw and yeah against natural order it's also really good but i guess you know lots of other cases where force of negation is a really really good card especially also against mono red stompy decks there are so many things you want to prevent like especially on the draw if you want to prevent the blood moon or something before you can fetch then there are the removal spells and yeah they all have different strengths and weaknesses and a smirk tide regent is kind of a problem card especially or troll of casa doom fatties like this which you cannot kill with fatal push i like to have one heart removal in the main and one heart removal in the sideboard so i'm a fan of shealdred's edict because it handles like indestructible creatures or creatures with wart or something but sometimes they flood the wart and you cannot kill what you want but i like it in the sideboard because because against control decks you can also kill the planeswalkers but yeah depends on what you want to face and i think this is a really good cool design space because for example in white you know okay just play four swords to blow shares i can exile anything and then maybe i add a prismatic ending but in black the design space is more interesting because they all have different strengths and weaknesses so go for this road it's bad against painter shoot the sheriff is bad against the dragon stompy deck then there's brazen borer if you expect more stuff like ensnaring bridge or more control where you want something more versatile but yeah i'm not that much of a fan of it but i recently also played the brazen borer in a sideboard just to have two in the main after boarding against stuff like chalice of the void and ensnaring bridge (.) then there's null rod and null rod is one of those i call them like hammer cards which are really really strong in a low number of matchups or in matchups which are not played that much but if it's great it often wins you the game on its own and in my opinion this is really important for ub tempo because again you're not fast enough with your one drops to often kill them after countering one spell so if you play rug delver or grixis delver you can just play your delvers and your dragon's rage genders force their one combo card and then kill them with both and this is not how blue black tempo operates so especially against stuff like black saga storm they can often combo multiple times especially because their combos are so compact so it used to be in the past like against the nauseam tendrils they need a lot of rituals and then passed in flames and whatever and if you just force of will one of their key spells then the game is already over nearly because they need so many cards to rebuild but nowadays the combo decks are so compact that they can just draw an echo and then lion's eye diamond and then combo again or they kill you with orza saga beatdown so yeah i think null rod is really important to kill the storm decks but they are not played that much online right now but for a local event where i expect lots of storm i would bring in put two null rods in a sideboard but online i mostly just play one or zero depending on what other stuff i expect so yeah null rods really good against the storm decks also the decks of the monolith maybe mystic forge and it's also of course really strong against eight cast even though right now that's not in the meta but yeah it's like one of my favorite sideboard cards and i've won so many games just on the back of those two null rods i also played two in the sideboard in last year's eternal weekend and they won me a lot of matches because i faced storm and mystic forge multiple times and they were just really really strong then powder keg is a card i usually don't play many people also played engineers engineered explosives in this spot but i don't own it i sold all of them i also think powder keg is better because locally i face artifact lands very often and this is great to have as an out against like saga tokens and for example empty the warrants goblin tokens so i don't play it online but locally where there's lots of storm for example or chalice decks i will play a powder keg but that's more of a niche card and the ub tempo deck it can have a really high win rate if you have your sideboard correctly built for the meta but there are a number of strong creature decks that naturally counter your deck because yeah you have a few threads but they are not that synergistic and you have a few removal spells and few counter spells that not met that much so synergistic creature decks like murphog or fog or goblins or ajani or death in texas or the different like band nadu or elf stacks or cradle control something like this um those decks are really strong against you but you can completely flip the matchups with toxic deluge often because you they flood the board with their mana dogs or their goblins or whatever and then you can often like flip a timeo and recur your removal or recur your toxic deluge or bring in a Barrowgoyf and then clean up so the thing is right now if you play a challenge for example i wouldn't play it because all those decks there's a large number of them but the meta share is really low and then on a league right now i would maybe play one toxic deluge and in a casual event with lots of new people or people who like to play their creature or tribal decks i would play two toxic deluge so it's a really strong sideboard card that completely flips matchups that and there are a lot of matchups which are good but in some matters those matchups just have a very low meta share so just to give you a few example sideboards this is one i could imagine playing at a local event where i expect lots of creatures this is a sideboard i played locally where i expect lots of storm delver and painter this is a sideboard i recently got two challenge no two league trophies in a row with and then i also got a third one after that but with a different version and this is a sideboard cutter slate recently used to his high finish i think it was ninth place in the showcase challenge so yeah depending on how casual your event is so if you play at a local meta or challenges or leagues there are lots of ways you can build your sideboard also to your personal preferences 


